I remember when I first got married
there was all these oldtimers in our
marriage and I went around and I said
basically hey anybody who's been married
for 35 years I'm going to ask them
what's the secret of marriage and I
swear 50% of the people had the exact
same answer it was yeser that was the
answer I can tell you something in
retrospect they were all miserable in
this video we're going to talk about the
four basic ways to save your
relationship my name is Joe Hudson I'm a
former venture capitalist and I coach
some of the most notable names in
Silicon Valley and before we talk about
the ways to save your relationship I
think it's really important to talk
about a perspective that's required in
saving your relationship so I work with
some incredibly high-powered people
people who have built billion-dollar
companies in like the space of 5 years
and yet somehow they have this belief
system that says I can build a
successful company I can make billions
of dollars in inside of a decade but I
can't do it and have a great marriage or
I can be happy with somebody else but I
can't be happy in my marriage or I can't
be free in my marriage I have to be
somebody else to be married these belief
systems are really important because if
you are giving effort and at the same
time feeling like it's impossible you're
really not going to succeed imagine you
are a a champion swimmer and you're
thinking to yourself I'm going to fail
I'm going to fail I'm going to fail and
there somebody else who's a champion
swimmer who is just as good in all ways
but they're thinking to themselves I'm
going to win I'm going to win I'm going
to win who are you going to put your
money on so that perspective upfront
that you can actually do it that it's
possible is critical if you're going to
save your relationship so let's get into
the four basic things you can do to save
your relationship the first one is turn
the blame into wants the second one is
say the difficult things to say the
third one is don't take responsibility
for the other person's emotion and the
fourth one is as illogical as it sounds
make it all about you let's start with
the first one let's talk talk about
blame to wants so I love this story
there was this time where one of my
clients was going to the restroom it was
like 2:00 in the morning you know the
time when you stub your toe and go into
the bathroom and started to pee and
missed the toilet and he noticed a
thought that he had and the thought was
ah she moved the
[Music]
toilet and immediately he realized oh I
am blaming my wife for all sorts of
things it's it doesn't even make sense
what i'm blaming her for when we blame
each other when we try to figure out
who's to blame it just tears a
relationship apart so there's a great
saying that I heard recently if you're
blaming someone else you've started the
journey if you're blaming yourself
you're halfway through the Journey if
there's nobody to blame you're dumb with
the journey I think that's just a lovely
saying because placing blame onto
another person or onto yourself it
doesn't actually help you get better it
just creates shame and shame
stagnates the emotions that we're having
having and stagnates the reality we are
having there's this great saying that I
love and it says shame is the locks that
hold the chains of bad habits in place
and when you're blaming you're putting
shame on each other and when you do that
it's just holding those bad habits in
place so instead of blaming somebody
every time you feel that urge to blame
just own what you want say oh I would
want this I want that the reason for
this is because often when you're
blaming you feel disempowered you feel
like I can't have the life that I want
which means asking for what you want is
a way to feel empowered again sometimes
people don't do it because it's a little
scary to ask for what they want but at
least your partner knows where you are
knows where you stand instead of you
just being resentful in the background
and
going like who the hell wants to be with
that who wants to be married to that so
first thing you do is move all of your
blame into wants the second thing is
learning to share the difficult stuff so
often times when a relationship
deteriorates people stop saying the
difficult stuff and they stop saying it
for a couple of reasons one of the
reasons is that if I share it they're
going to get upset or they're going to
fall apart or they're going to get angry
so I call that walking on eggshells so
I'm not going to do it because I don't
like the consequence of their behavior
and the other reason is because we're
trying to manage each other often in a
relationship like oh like how do I get
them to be X Y and Z because because
once they X Y and Z then I can be happy
and none of that really allows for the
deeper conversation and therefore you
don't really know each other you don't
really know the things that are
underneath the service and then how can
you actually love each other if you
don't know each other it's like this
crazy trade that we make when we say oh
I can be liked for who I'm not rather
than be liked for who I am and if you're
not sharing that deep stuff you can't
actually be liked for who you are you
can only be liked for who you're
pretending to be here's a couple Cool
Tools to help make those deeper
conversations easier first one is listen
don't listen with judgment don't listen
with trying to fix the other person
don't listen trying to save the other
person you just listen just be with
whatever emotions you have and listen
listen with unconditional acceptance and
the other one is to draw boundaries is
just simply to be able to say to
somebody hey I just want to share I
don't want input right now I just want
to be heard or I don't want to solve the
problem I just want to be heard or
nothing needs to change I'm just
exploring some thoughts I just want to
be heard and so drawing that boundary so
that you can get the space to be heard
is critical and often times when we get
heard what we want what happens what
we're going to do next changes because
we actually get to process it and find
out our deeper truth so number three is
don't take responsibility for another
person's emotions so this one is like
one of the most challenging ones that
there are so often times we think as a
partner to somebody in a relationship
we're responsible for making them happy
or they're responsible for making us
happy so that is an incredible dilemma
because nobody can make you happy but
you and nobody can make me happy but me
and So eventually we're going to fail
even more than that if I start trying to
make you happy what I'm actually
communicating to you is that you're not
capable of making yourself happy which
is disempowering which means you're
going to be resentful of me or if you're
saying to me oh my job is to make you
happy then I'm disempowered and I feel
like I have to be resentful to just even
maintain any sense of self so taking
responsibility for each other's
happiness really creates a tremendous
amount of resentment now I'm not saying
don't be kind to each other I'm not
saying don't show care to one another
but there's this moment that you'll have
in a relationship where you're leaning
in trying to make sure that they feel
good that's what you don't do you just
simply allow a person to have their
emotions and instead of trying to fix it
you just be with it you're just like oh
look you're having that emotion and
that's fine that's great it
passes there's nothing that has to be
done you don't have to be fixed we're
good think about it this way you say to
somebody hey don't be
sad as compared to oh I see that you're
sad yeah right here maybe you can even
say what if anything can I do maybe they
don't want you to do anything but it's
not your job to take care of them
they're a full grown adult and if you
start taking care of them they start
acting like a kid it's a horrible thing
so it's really important to not take
responsibility for the other person's
happiness so the last one is making it
all about you I remember when I first
got married there was all these
oldtimers in our marriage and I went
around and I said basically hey anybody
who's been married for 35 years I'm
going to ask them what's the secret of
marriage and I swear 50% of the people
had the exact same answer it was yeser
that was the answer I can tell you
something in retrospect they were all
miserable they were married but it
wasn't a happy marriage and so the way
that this works is people have a
disagreement and they say hey we're
going to compromise and compromising
means we're going to just carve a little
piece of myself off going leave that on
the side so that you can be happy and
then you're going to carve a little
piece of yourself off and leave that
behind and then I'm going to be happy
and then we just keep on carving away we
keep on saying yes dear and then all of
a sudden there's nothing left in the
marriage our entire personhood is
outside of the marriage and there's just
this like shell of a skeleton of a
person inside of the marriage and so
with Tara and I we decided early on that
we're just never going to compromise and
what I mean by that is that we are going
to think to ourselves we're smart enough
to find a solution that works for both
of us we can find a way that we can both
be happy that we can both support each
other in the growth and that every every
place where we can't find a way to be
happy with one another means that
there's something in us to work on and
that's where the real key of it's all
about you means it means when you are
working on the relationship you don't
work on the other person ever you always
work on yourself not with blame you're
not blaming yourself you're not blaming
the other person but you're taking the
relationship as a path of growth every
place where there's that little uh where
you want to compromise or you want to
give up is a place for you to look at
yourself and see yourself more clearly
and when you both are making it all
about yourselves and about your growth
then the relationship just thrives
there's something really critical that I
want to end with which is the
relationship you have with another is
really best reflected in the
relationship you have with yourself if
you have a loving relationship with
yourself you're going to have a loving
marriage you're going to have a loving
relationship with your lover with your
girlfriend with your boyfriend if you
have a relationship with yourself where
you're at War you're going to be at War
with your wife or your partner so the
main thing about keeping that focus on
yourself is really working on the
relationship that you have with yourself
because that is what reflects in the
world in your company in the people you
work with and with the people you love
if you got a lot out of the video please
subscribe tell us what else you want to
hear about and feel free to watch the
next video